**Table of Contents**

-   [Authors](#authors)

Authors
=======

The SPECFEM3D package was first developed by Dimitri Komatitsch and Jean-Pierre Vilotte at Institut de Physique du Globe (IPGP) in Paris, France from 1995 to 1997 and then by Dimitri Komatitsch and Jeroen Tromp at Harvard University and Caltech, USA, starting in 1998. The story started on April 4, 1995, when Prof. Yvon Maday from CNRS and University of Paris, France, gave a lecture to Dimitri Komatitsch and Jean-Pierre Vilotte at IPG about the nice properties of the Legendre spectral-element method with diagonal mass matrix that he had used for other equations. We are deeply indebted and thankful to him for that. That followed a visit by Dimitri Komatitsch to OGS (Istituto Nazionale di Oceanografia e di Geofisica Sperimentale) in Trieste, Italy, in February 1995 to meet with Géza Seriani and Enrico Priolo, who introduced him to their 2D Chebyshev version of the spectral-element method with a non-diagonal mass matrix. We are deeply indebted and thankful to them for that.

Since then it has been developed and maintained by a development team: in alphabetical order, Michael Afanasiev, Dmitry Alexeev, Jean-Paul (Pablo) Ampuero, Kazuto Ando, Kangchen Bai, Piero Basini, Stephen Beller, Céline Blitz, Alexis Bottero, Ebru Bozdağ, Emanuele Casarotti, Joseph Charles, Min Chen, Paul Cristini, Congyue Cui, Clément Durochat, Percy Galvez, Hom Nath Gharti, Dominik Göddeke, Leopold Grinberg, Vala Hjörleifsdóttir, Elodie Kendall, Sue Kientz, Dimitri Komatitsch, Jesús Labarta, Piero Lanucara, Nicolas Le Goff, Pieyre Le Loher, Matthieu Lefebvre, Qinya Liu, Youshan Liu, David Luet, Yang Luo, Alessia Maggi, Federica Magnoni, Roland Martin, René Matzen, Dennis McRitchie, Jean-François Méhaut, Matthias Meschede, Peter Messmer, David Michéa, Takayuki Miyoshi, Vadim Monteiller, Surendra Nadh Somala, Tarje Nissen-Meyer, Ridvan Orsvuran, Laura Parisi, Daniel Peter, Kevin Pouget, Max Rietmann, Vittorio Ruggiero, Elliott Sales de Andrade, Brian Savage, Bernhard Schuberth, Anne Sieminski, James Smith, Leif Strand, Carl Tape, Jeroen Tromp, Seiji Tsuboi, Brice Videau, Jean-Pierre Vilotte, Zhinan Xie, Chang-Hua Zhang, Hejun Zhu.

The cover graphic of the manual was created by Santiago Lombeyda from Caltech’s Center for Advanced Computing Research (CACR), USA, with free satellite clipart pictures from <http://www.4vector.com> and <http://www.clker.com> added to it.

The code is released open-source under the GNU version 3 license, see the license at the end of this manual.

-----
> This documentation has been automatically generated by [pandoc](http://www.pandoc.org)
> based on the User manual (LaTeX version) in folder doc/USER_MANUAL/
> (Sep  7, 2021)

